Cloud Code has just been completely
redefined on desktop with a wave of new
updates dropping today. And honestly, it
feels like an unofficial Claude Code 2.0
release. We're getting a fully
redesigned desktop app now featuring an
integrated terminal built within the
Cloud Code desktop app. There's a
built-in editor. You have HTML, PDF
previews, faster diff viewers, and
entirely new capabilities like routines
that seriously level up how you can
automate workflows. And that's not all.
There are also strong signals like Opus
4.7 that could be arriving very soon,
potentially even this week, alongside
rumors of GBT 5.5. There's a lot to
unpack here, so let's dive straight into
it all. If you want the best AI tools,
workflows, and drops before everyone
else, join my free newsletter with the
link in the description below, which is
completely free. To start off, let's
take a look at what has changed with
Claude Code on desktop. Now, you will
see that it has a huge redesign in terms
of the app, and you can now run multiple
cloud code sessions side by side. The
chat, co-work, as well as claude code
has been added to the leftand panel.
Nothing too complicated. It looks a lot
easier and sleek. And you'll actually
notice that cloud code now within the
desktop app looks a lot different. You
can now run multiple cloud code sessions
inside this overall cloud session where
you have the ability to add multiple
sessions running simultaneously within a
single window. You also have this new
sidebar which makes it easy for you to
manage everything in a single spot. You
also have routines which is something
that we will mention upon in a bit. On
top of that, the desktop experience now
includes an integrated terminal. This is
where you have built-in file editing,
HTML and PDF previews, and a much faster
diff viewer viewer. All wrapped inside a
flexible drag and drop layout that you
can customize to your workflow. And
importantly, your CLI plugins still work
exactly the same as they do on the
command line, so you're not losing any
of that power. Now, unfortunately, guys,
this desktop app update is only
available for Mac OS and Windows users.
It's not available for Linux users just
yet. Should be deployed within the next
few weeks. But if you're looking to
update it, you can obviously do so by
opening up the Cloud app and it will
automatically be updated when you click
the relaunch button. But if you do not
have this app, you can easily install it
within this website over here. Also, all
these clips that I'm getting is from
Daniel on Twitter, and I highly
recommend that you follow him because he
has a lot of information on Claude Code,
in-depth analysis on it. But something
new that they have added is a powerful
addition inside the Cloud Code app,
which is the ability to start a session
directly from a pull request. This means
you can jump straight into reviewing,
editing, or debugging code from a PR
without needing to manually set up
everything. This is going to make the
whole process significantly faster and
more seamless. Another upgrade is the
ability to open multiple panels within
cloud code. This essentially means you
can bring up previews, pull request
diffs, tasks, different sorts of plans,
and even spin up another terminal
directly within the app all inside this
same workspace. So if you think about
it, you can run asynchronous agents
working simultaneously to tackle any
complex task. Now, obviously, it's going
to be really scary if you're going to be
running into a lot of rate limits, but
that is the only downside with this
Cloud Code app. It essentially is going
to turn it into a fully self-contained
development environment now, and it is
where everything you need is accessible
side by side without constantly
switching tools. The interface itself is
now much more tailored towards a
developer first experience with more
compact inputs and stronger emphasis on
agent execution and real development
workflows. So instead of it feeling like
a traditional chat interface, it now
feels closer to a true IDE where Claude
is actively working alongside you rather
than you just responding to prompts.
It's clear that this version is laying
the groundwork for something much
bigger, especially as more agentic
features, automations, and deeper system
integrations start to roll out.
Enthropic is truly killing it recently,
and I see a lot of potential with this
new desktop app. Now, to showcase how
you can set up the previews, what you
can do is you can simply rightclick on
this top right button, and this is where
you can check where you can actually
preview your generations. And this way
you're going to be able to see exactly
what is happening with your server on
the right end panel. And this way you
can actually work with the AI to
visualize what is happening. And soon we
should be able to see what it had
generated. I essentially had requested
it to create a Minecraft clone and it
will sooner or later showcase over here.
And you can see this is the Minecraft
clone that it has generated. Now, it's
not going to work exactly as I had
expected, but that is just a rough
preview of what you can actually do in
terms of previewing your generations
within this panel. Now, what you can
also do is view diffs. You have the
ability to also view the terminal. So,
if you want to execute tasks through a
terminal, you can do so directly through
it over here. You can also visualize
your tasks as well as the plan mode.
Alongside the new cloud code redesigned
update, there's also a new feature that
is in research preview called routines.
And this lets you configure a workflow
once including your prompt repository
and any connected tools and then you can
run it automatically on a schedule which
is triggered by an API call or even in
response to a specific event. And the
key detail here is that the routines run
on a cloud infrastructure. So you don't
need to keep your machine running or any
of this to execute these different
routine tasks. Essentially turns cloud
code into a fully autonomous system that
can handle ongoing tasks in the
background without any manual
intervention. The way I like to use
routines is super simple and I highly,
highly, highly recommend that you try
using it because it is going to let you
do tasks like having you focus on a
daily AI model release update where it
scour the web and finds you the latest
announcements on various sorts of AI
topics and you can have it run
autonomously for you every single day.
Another new feature is the ultra plan
feature within Claude Code. And with
this, Claude can now create a full
implementation plan for you directly on
the web. So you can review it, make
edits, and refine the approach before
executing anything. Once you're ready,
you can run that plan either in the
cloud or bring it back into your
terminal, giving you more control over
how things are actually getting
executed. It's a big step forward for
more structured agent-driven
development. So, where you're not just
prompting, but you're actually
collaborating on full plans before they
get carried out. Now, moving on to what
could be even bigger, and that is the
Opus 4.7. There are reports suggesting
that Enthropic is preparing the next
flagship model to be launched either
this week or within the next few weeks.
This is from the information and they
had stated that they are trying to drop
it within this week and this is going to
be a revolutionary model with many new
features. What's even more interesting
is that alongside the model they're also
reportedly working on a brand new AI
power tool for designing websites and
presentations. This is a full stack dev
tool that I had talked about on Twitter
which is going to be something that
replicates what lovable is doing. If
this is true, it's signaling major
improvements and expansions in coding as
well as chat capabilities. And overall,
this model is going to be exceptional
with full creativity and production
workflows. And if Opus 4.7 really does
launch this soon, it could be one of the
biggest model upgrades that we have ever
seen from Enthropic. If you like this
video and would love to support the
channel, you can consider donating to my
channel through the super thanks option
below. Or you can consider joining our
private Discord where you can access
multiple subscriptions to different AI
tools for free on a monthly basis plus
daily AI news and exclusive content plus
a lot more. Also, this may be why we
have saw a dip in terms of performance
with enthropic models. So, that solves
everything if they're planning on
dropping this new 4.7 model. And that
definitely aligns to whatever I had
stated on Twitter. But I'll leave all
these links that I used in today's video
in the description below. Thank you guys
so much for watching, guys. Really
appreciate it. Make sure you go take a
look at the second channel, join the
newsletter, join the Discord, follow me
on Twitter, and lastly, make sure you
guys subscribe, turn on notification
bell, like this video, and please take a
look at our previous videos so that you
can stay upto date with the latest AI
news. But with that thought, guys, have
an amazing day. Spread positivity and
I'll see you guys fairly shortly.